OK guys.
So now that we have our Google sign in we have to actually figure out how to store this authenticated
user into our database because right now the authenticated user that we're getting back from are off
library is not actually something in our database.
So when we actually sign in with our Google sign in what we get back is this user authentication object
that has a lot of properties on it that we don't actually want.
So there are so many properties on this because a lot of these are related to things that you might
want to do with a Google off object from Google's own API.
So this is supposed to integrate with many of their other services or what they offer in their Google
sign into other platforms other libraries.
It's all unrelated to what we need in our application.
In fact the only things that we really need in our application is this display name.
This email and possibly maybe a phone number.
Right.
But the most important thing is this UI.
This you I.D. represents the dynamically generated I.D. string that Google made for us when we authenticated
this user using the Google sign.
In fact if we go into our authentication and we look at our user inside of our off tab whenever a user
signs in to our application using the off library that we have regardless of if it's email sign and
or Google sign in we will get this user right.
And this user has this EU I.D. We have to take this user off object figure out the properties that we
want from it and put it into our database particularly what we want to do is put it into our users collection.
Now we're going to write some code that will allow us to do this as well as understanding what the firestorm
library actually does for us because there's actually certain rules or certain things that we have to
abide by in order to use and update the fire store database.
And I'll explain them as we write out this function.
So the function that we're trying to write is going to be one that allows us to take that user off object
that we got back from our authentication library and then store inside of our database.
So what we're going to call it is this function called create user profile document.
Right.
And this is going to be an asynchronous thing because we're making an API request right.
That's an asynchronous action so we're gonna call async and what we're going to pass into it is of course
our user off object right.
That we get back from the author library that's that same object that we were logging right here.
We're going to pass that in and then we're also going to pass and possibly any additional data that
we might need.
So this could be something that we're going to use later when we do are sign up but for now we're just
going to say we also might want some additional data that will come in in the format of an object and
I'll show you what we'll do with this additional data.
Now as we saw when our user signs out we actually get back no from this library.
Right.
If our sign out right now we'll see that we log null.
So we only want to perform this save to our database if we get back a user off object which means that
they signed in not that they signed out.
So our function has to make sure that we're checking if we're actually getting back a valid object.
So inside of our code what we're gonna do is we're going to say if there is no user off.
Right.
Because this will evaluate.
No.
Right.
And if it's null then it's false.
And with the bang we're gonna say we want to reverse it.
So if it's not false.
Right.
So I know the context is confusing but this is essentially a saying if the user auth object does not
exist then we want to return from this function.
We don't want to do anything else.
We want to exit from this function if it does exist though.
What we're going to do is we are going to query inside a fire store for the document to see if it already
exists.
Now in order for us to do this we have to understand what it is that we're going to get back now inside
of here.
I have a actual slide for us to understand the firestorm library gives us back one of two different
types of potential objects.
We either get back a query reference or a query snapshot.
They're both different objects that do different things in firestorm.
But let's talk about what a query is versus a query is simply us asking fire store for some document
or collection if you remember from the last lesson where we talked about fire store we called Dot dock
or dock collection and then pass that string to the location inside of the database right for either
a collection or a document.
That act of asking is what a query is and what we'll get back when we query is a query reference and
it can either come in the format of a document or a collection.
If we're querying for a document or collection respectively a firestorm will always return us these
objects whether it be the reference or the snapshot which we'll talk about later firestorm will give
us the object because using the object we can determine whether or not there is any data there.
Now the reference is simply a object that represents that current place in the database that we're asking
for.
So let's actually try it out and we can call it either using dot Doc passing in the collections this
way right or Doc collections and passing in the path to that collection.
We explored that earlier in a previous lesson but let's try it out what we're going to do here is we
are simply going to console dot log the fire store and then calling for the dock users slash and then
a random user I.D. one that we definitely know doesn't exist right.
Because our collection is empty anyways if we were to save this and pass this into our app J.S. Right
we import it in and we use it whenever we get back and forth object.
We know that this will be asynchronous because we're going to of course make a potential API request
right to our fire store and then what we'll do is instead of setting the stage here we are going to
console oh wait sir we're just gonna fire this using our user off object that we know that we're getting
back from our off library if we were to save.
We go back to our application.
We see that we're getting back this document reference object.
We also see that the random I.D. that we pass to it is here we see that we get the path that we also
passed in.
Right.
So we know where the current location of this document reference is but we are always getting back this
object even though it doesn't exist inside of our database.
So why is that.
Well the reason is because we actually use this reference object to tell fire store whether to save
data to this place inside of our database or to get data from this location in the database.
It does not have the actual data related to the document.
Instead it gives us properties that tell us details about it like the I.D. and the path to this specific
query reference as we already saw but what we're also able to see if this is a query reference right.
Meaning it's a document reference is that the parent is a collection reference representing the collection
that this document is in.
So here we'll see in this collection reference that we have our idea of users and the path is just users
now the difference between the document reference and the collection reference is that the document
reference object we use to perform are crud methods on our firestorm KRudd being either creating retrieving
updating or deleting the data in that place that location.
Now when we actually retrieve the data right we're calling dot get it right and don't get is US pulling
out a snapshot object of that place in the database and that snapshot object was that second type of
object that I was telling you that fast or could give us back we'll actually use it and we'll be able
to use that snapshot object in order for us to determine with our code whether or not there's any data
in this current reference in our fire store.
So I'll show you what that is as well.
But again the snapshot object we get back from calling dot get.
Right.
So we either call it document rough dot get or we call collection rough talk at collection ref also
gives us back a snapshot of the collection.
But it's different from what we're going to use in our current code.
But it's just good to know that this is something that you might possibly have to do.
And of course from the document ref we're gonna get a document snapshot.
So let's actually take a look at that so back in our code what we're going to do here is we are going
to move this into a contest of some kind.
Right.
So const user ref equals forest or dot Doc getting that user and then I'm going to hear say how do we
get the snapshot.
Well it's going to be snapshot equals user ref.
Right.
So we have our user reference dot get now this is an async right.
So we're gonna await this and then we're just going to log the snapshot.
So we take a look at what it is that we're getting now.
We see that this is our document snapshot object an on it is this property exists the exists property
tells us whether or not there's any data there the I.D. tells us of course the idea of the same document
metadata gives us certain information about things like when it was created right whether or not it's
cached at whether or not there's pending rights.
Meaning if there's anything that needs to be updated right to this snapshot.
Don't worry about this for now but just know that this is something that you might want to use if you
get really really deep with firestorm.
And then of course we can also always reference back to the document reference object that we queried
our Snapshot from now instead of using this fake one.
What we want to use is the user off you I.D..
Right.
Because we now want to see whether or not the user off object that we get back from authentication library
actually already exists in our database.
So here we're able to say instead of using an actual string where you string interpolation I will say
users at our user off dot UI de we will get back the user reference at that location and then we'll
get a snapshot and using that snapshot we're going to figure out whether or not there's data there.
Right.
Whether or not we've already stored this user object that we've authenticated and here we'll see that
the exists is false of course.
Right.
But the idea is now that I did that we were getting back from our off library.
So what we're going to say is we're going to check inside of our code.
Right.
Using that snapshot exists property so if it doesn't exist we want to actually create a piece of data
there and we're going to create it using argues a ref because if you remember from our slide in order
for us to create we have to use the document reference object not the snapshot the snapshot simply represents
the data.
Any methods of creating getting updating or deleting that data.
We have to use the document reference all object for so here.
What we're going to do before we create it is we need to see what properties we actually want to store.
Right.
What are the data that we want to use in order to create this actual document.
So what we want is the display name and the email from our user off.
Right.
As we remember from that giant object that we first logged.
We want the display name.
We want the email and we also want to make sure that we know inside of our database when we made that
document.
So by calling new date we're creating a new javascript date object that tells us the current date at
the current time when this was invoked and what we're going to do is we're going to wrap this inside
of a try catch block because what we're going to do is an asynchronous request to our database to actually
store this data now.
So what we're going to do is we're going to await our user ref calling dot set dots that being the create
method and we're gonna make an object.
Right we're going to pass on an object where we have the display name we have the email we have the
created app and we're also spreading in any other additional data that we might want.
So as you remember I mentioned earlier we're going to pass this additional data into this function as
an object if this has any issues.
We're going to console log error creating user.
Right.
And when then we're going to log out the error message as well
and if this snapshot doesn't exist now we'll create eight data in that place.
That's all this code is doing or checking if there's any data in that place.
If there isn't create a new user using the data from our user auth object.
Now what this function will also do is always return us back our user ref because there's a chance that
we want to use this user reference object to do other things right.
This code simply creates the snapshot it creates the data but we might still want the user reference
in our code for something.
So that's why we're going to return it from this user ref.
And now when we called create user profile document write our app initialized You see we didn't log.
So we probably created something in our data.
We said we'll be check there is our user in our database our current user is now being stored and if
we refresh as we know our functional far every time because off is always persisting despite that we've
only still got the one user.
We're not making multiple copies because our code again checks if the snapshot at this place exists
or not.
So that's what our code is doing.
We're checking and went out we're making these new users inside of our database based on that user off
object and now that we have these objects being stored in our database and being pulled into our application.
Let's actually figure out how to store this data so that we can use it in our application.